docs: Add function tutorial (#769)
vmware-samples/vcenter-event-broker-appliance: docs/kb/function-tutorial-intro.md

---
layout: docs
toc_id: function-tutorial-intro
title: VMware Event Broker Appliance - Function Tutorial Intro
description: VMware Event Broker Appliance - Function Tutorial - Intro
permalink: /kb/function-tutorial-intro
cta:
 title: What's next?
 description: Continue function tutorial
 actions:
    - text: Modify and test a function locally on your workstation [Function Tutorial - Modify and Test](function-tutorial-modtest)
    - text: Deploy a function to your VEBA appliance [Function Tutorial - Function Deploy](function-tutorial-deploy)
---

# In-depth Function Tutorial - Intro

This tutorial will go over:
- What is a VEBA function
- The anatomy of a PowerShell function and how to do basic modifications to it.  We will use the [kn-ps-slack](https://github.com/vmware-samples/vcenter-event-broker-appliance/tree/master/examples/knative/powershell/kn-ps-slack) function for our example.

> - Setting up the required tools on your workstation: git, docker, and kubectl

Reviewer: nit: let's please highlight commands with markdown

```suggestion
- Setting up the required tools on your workstation: `git`, `docker`, and `kubectl`
```

Author: Fixed.

- Modify and test a function locally on your workstation
- How to deploy the function to the Kubernetes cluster in your VEBA appliance

## Table of Contents
- [The big picture](#the-big-picture)
- [The anatomy of a VEBA function](#the-anatomy-of-a-veba-function)
- [Installing required tools on your workstation](#installing-required-tools-on-your-workstation)

## The big picture

> VEBA functions provide the "custom" functionality to the VEBA appliance to fulfill your business requirements.  Functions are packaged as Docker images.  The functions can be written in PowerShell, Python, Go, or just about any language, but they are packaged and distributed as Docker images.  This is because the VEBA appliance runs Kubernetes (on top of the Photon OS) and functions are deployed as containers on the Kubernetes system.  Kubernetes provides an abstraction layer to allow containers to run seamlessly on disparate hardware/OSes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VEBA functions provide the "custom" logic to the VEBA appliance to fulfil your business requirements.  Functions are packaged as Docker images.  The functions can be written in PowerShell, Python, Go, or just about any language, and are packaged and distributed as Docker images.  This is because the VEBA appliance runs Kubernetes (on top of the Photon OS) and functions are deployed as containers on the Kubernetes system.  Kubernetes provides an abstraction layer to allow containers to run seamlessly on disparate hardware/OSes.
```

Author: Fixed.

- **handler.ps1** contains the PowerShell code that runs when the specified vCenter event triggers it.  The handler.ps1 file is injected into the Docker image which must be rebuilt every time the code changes.
- **slack_secret.json** contains the Slack key for your Slack channel.  This file will be used to create a Kubernetes secret that the function will read.  Most functions will include a secret file that contains: usernames/passwords, keys, or other sensitive information that will be used to create a Kubernetes secret.

**What are Kubernetes secrets?**  The VEBA appliance runs a Kubernetes cluster on top of the Photon OS.  This allows the VEBA functions to be packaged as containers that are then deployed into the Kubernetes cluster.  A Kubernetes secret is an object that contains a small amount of sensitive data that can be read by a Kubernets pod (pods are made up of containers).  Secrets allow sensitive or confidential data to be packaged separate from a container's application code.

> Also note the link in the README for the available video tutorial which may be of help: [video tutorial](https://youtu.be/vLyeZrm0jk4)

Reviewer: nit: I'd remove this as it might distract the reader from this tutorial. Alternatively, you can reword this sentence because it wasn't immediately clear what the link does before I clicked.

## Installing required tools on your workstation
You will need to install and configure/use three tools:

> - git - used to clone the VEBA github repository down to your workstation (including the function code we want to use) so that you have a local copy to modify/test/deploy.
> - Docker - if you modify the function's code, you will use Docker to:
>   - create a new Docker image
>   - push the image to the Docker registry so that it is available to be pulled down by the Kubernetes cluster.
>   - test the function locally on your workstation without the need for a deployed veba appliance.
> - kubectl - command line interface to the Kubernetes cluster.  This command is used to deploy the function and secret to the Kubernetes cluster.  It is also used in troubleshooting the VEBA appliance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `git` - used to clone the VEBA github repository down to your workstation (including the function code we want to use) so that you have a local copy to modify/test/deploy.
- Docker - if you modify the function's code, you will use Docker to:
  - create a new Docker image
  - push the image to the Docker registry so that it is available to be pulled down by the Kubernetes cluster.
  - test the function locally on your workstation without the need for a deployed veba appliance.
- `kubectl` - command line interface to the Kubernetes cluster.  This command is used to deploy the function and secret to the Kubernetes cluster.  It is also used in troubleshooting the VEBA appliance.
```

Reviewer: Please change these accordingly in all docs

```
cd ~
mkdir veba
cd veba
scp 'root@<VEBA IP>:/root/.kube/config' .
Env:KUBECONFIG="$HOME\veba\config"
```
The above sample code is _**one**_ way of configuring the Kubernetes config file to use for access to the cluster.  How to navigate between multiple configs is documented here: [Kubernetes configure access](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/).

Check that everything is working.
- kubectl config view: returns the currently loaded config
- kubectl cluster-info: returns info from the Kubernetes cluster (within the VEBA appliance)
- kubectl get ns: returns the namespaces from the Kubernetes cluster
```
kubectl config view
kubectl cluster-info
kubectl get ns
```

You should see something similar to the below image:

> <img src="./img/tutorial-kubectl-success1.png" width="100%" align="center" class="border m-1 p-1"/>

Reviewer: nit: these could have been a console output like you use above instead of a screenshot.

Author: I've removed screenshots and replaced with console output in all cases but a few where I wanted to highlight something and the screenshot displayed things more clearly.

Next, download the Docker dmg from: [Docker download](https://hub.docker.com/editions/community/docker-ce-desktop-mac/) and install.

Now login using the Docker account you just signed up with (replace dduck/VMware1! with your own account info below).  Open a Terminal window and submit:
```
docker login --username dduck --password VMware1!
```

### Install and Configure `kubectl`

`kubectl` is the command line utility used to access a Kubernetes cluster.  With `kubectl`, you can deploy the VEBA function in the form of Kubernetes secrets and pods, check logs, and troubleshoot the health of the Kubernetes cluster and VEBA application.  The `kubectl` command line utility determines which Kubernetes cluster to access and which certificate to use for authentication by reading a config file.  The default config file resides at: ~/.kube/config on the VEBA appliance.

Install `kubectl` with brew:

```
brew install kubectl
kubectl version
```

> Next we will copy the .kube config file from the VEBA appliance to the local workstation.  You will need to know the IP address and root password of the deployed VEBA appliance and also verify that ssh has been enabled.  These parameters will have been set during the VEBA appliance deployment.  Once the config file is copied locally, we will export it so that it becomes the default `kubectl` config file.  You can switch which Kubernetes cluster `kubectl` points at by changing the "export KUBECONFIG" file link.  This example creates a "veba" folder to store the config file in and uses scp to copy the file from the VEBA appliance.  Replace <VEBA IP> below with the VEBA appliance IP address.  You will be prompted for the VEBA appliance root password.

Author: done

```
cd ~
mkdir veba
cd veba
scp 'root@<VEBA IP>:/root/.kube/config' .
export KUBECONFIG=$HOME/veba/config
```
The above sample code is _**one**_ way of configuring the Kubernetes config file to use for access to the cluster.  How to navigate between multiple configs is documented here: [Kubernetes configure access](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/).

Check that everything is working.
- `kubectl config view`: returns the currently loaded config
- `kubectl cluster-info`: returns info from the Kubernetes cluster (within the VEBA appliance)
- `kubectl get ns`: returns the namespaces from the Kubernetes cluster
```
kubectl config view
kubectl cluster-info
kubectl get ns
```

You should see something similar to the below image:

```

> ➜  ~

Author: done

> ➜  ~ kubectl config view

Author: shell prefixes have been removed from all docs.

```
cd ~
mkdir veba
cd veba
scp 'root@<VEBA IP>:/root/.kube/config' .
export KUBECONFIG=$HOME/veba/config
```
The above sample code is _**one**_ way of configuring the Kubernetes config file to use for access to the cluster.  How to navigate between multiple configs is documented here: [Kubernetes configure access](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/).

Check that everything is working.
- `kubectl config view`: returns the currently loaded config
- `kubectl cluster-info`: returns info from the Kubernetes cluster (within the VEBA appliance)
- `kubectl get ns`: returns the namespaces from the Kubernetes cluster

> ```

Reviewer: I think you need to add a newline here since the code block is intended in the web view.

Author: added line and removed the tutorial-kubectl-port.png as it was not needed.
